In 2013, our English-printed Bibles
were revised and, shortly thereafter,
the Braille Bibles were approved
to be revised in English and Portuguese.
We knew it was going to be a large job.
We were having problems
with the pages either tearing
or coming completely out of the Bible.
We tried changing the paper
to see if that would be a simple solution,
and we had a brother
who is blind come in and help us.
We were able to test the paper
in the machine and actually walk it
right over to the brother,
and he gave us immediate feedback
on adjustments to the machine
or if it wasn’t working at all.
During our testing,
we tried about 25 different types of paper,
but we ended up coming back to the idea
that the binding was
the best way to find a durable solution.
The result is that the durability
is 400 percent stronger than it was before.
You can pick up an entire book
by holding just one page.
In the Literature Production Office,
we have ones who receive
the requests for the Braille Bibles,
we have ones
who will review these requests
as they come into the system,
and then we have
a separate set of brothers who make sure
that all the materials are here on time.
We get our orders from the office,
and then the office
will tell us how many to make
—maybe the specific volume number.
Braille Bibles come
from the Wallkill printery
on the Braille production floor.
Right at the end of the machine,
we have a Braille paper roll.
We make sure
that there’s nothing wrong with that roll,
and then it gets fed into the machine
where it creates Braille
on both sides of the page.
And after that,
it gets cut and punched.
We gather it
and do some quality inspection.
We’ll bind it together;
we’ll rivet each section into a binder
that has been prelabeled
with a volume number,
do an inspection on it,
pop it in a box, and then send it out the door.
To produce the English Bible in Braille
takes about four and a half hours,
which then breaks out into 28 volumes,
and the Portuguese Bible
in Braille takes closer
to five and a half hours,
and that breaks out into 32 volumes.
We did not start production with Genesis,
because we wanted the brothers
and sisters to be able to receive the volume
that would be
on the congregation Bible reading schedule
at our midweek meetings.
So as we receive
the files for each volume,
it’s being printed and sent out
to our brothers and sisters.
It’s important to me
to be able to read God’s Word
rather than just listening
because I am a visual person.
So the eyesight is gone, but I’m still visual.
I learn better from reading
than I do from listening.
In my mind when I’m listening,
my mind wanders,
but when I’m reading, I can stop
and meditate on what I’m studying.
That helps me
with my relationship with Jehovah.
It has helped me a lot,
because a lot of things
I don’t have to look up
because it’s in plain English.
They have so many things
in this new Bible
that I can use, like the outline.
I can get that outline
and find something fast.
It has the appendix,
the word index,
and the glossary.
During the time of the Memorial,
I was able to read the events
of the last week of Jesus’ life.
I really enjoy reading with one hand
and pulling the other hand down
and reading the footnotes.
I can participate more
in the midweek meeting.
For instance, in the section
“Digging for Spiritual Gems,”
the brothers always get someone
from the audience to read the scriptures.
So once I got the new Bible,
I could raise my hand
and volunteer to read,
and so the whole meeting opened up.
The revised edition
helps me be more effective at the meeting,
and it helps me to find
exactly what I need.
Before the revision,
when he’d have a part on the meeting,
he would have to get his Brailler out
and have me dictate one sentence at a time
so he could type it all out
—what he was going to use in his part.
So this is nice because he has
the right wording
that all the friends have.
I like to carry it from house to house,
so I can only take
the one volume because they’re huge.
But whatever the initial call is,
I can take that scripture
and see if the householder
will let me read a scripture for them.
It means so much to be able to read
the Scriptures and to do personal study.
I am very thankful for all the work
our brothers have done up in Wallkill.
I really appreciate the effort
that they’ve all gone through,
because that’s a lot of work.
In Jehovah’s organization,
they care for everyone.
I was so thankful
that they had the Braille Bible for the blind.
That’s what draws me closer to Jehovah
—being able to study his Word
and look the scriptures up.
The new Bible is personal to me.
I feel like it was
a personal answer to a prayer.
Jehovah supplied it because that’s
the main thing I wanted to read,
and I am so thankful to Jehovah.